# NetLogo model of a stock market - Master Thesis - Nick van Berkel
NetLogo model of a stock market for my Master Thesis. This agent-based model of a stock market simulates individual investors and non-financial, public firms. Investors (or shareholders) trade shares based on either a fundamentalist and chartist investing strategy and alter their price forecasts based on the accuracy of the investing strategy in the past. They also change their investing strategy based on the return on investment of the investors in their direct environment. Non-financial firms (NFCs) payout dividend, repurchase shares and invest their capital with their annual earnings. They change their dividend rate, share repurchasing target and investment decisions based on three corporate governance strategies that either tries to maximize the shareholder value, minimize their interest payments or keep a minimum payout and investment ratio. Investors have to pay yearly taxes on dividend they received and capital they gained from sold shares, while NFCs have to pay yearly taxes on their earnings.

Two different versions of the model have been created: one visualized with a GIS map of the US (without Alaska and Hawaii) and one non-visualized.

The goal of my research was to investigate whether different corporate governance strategies can explain the effect of taxes on the real investment rate in non-financial, public coprorations. My full Master Thesis can be found in the Repository of the TU Delft:

Copyright © 2019 Nick van Berkel.

Permission is granted, free of charge, to use, alter, modify, merge, copy, publish or distribute the files and content of the files in this repository with no intention to sell, loan or make money of a product that uses, alters, modifies, copies, incorporates or merges the files or content of the files in this repository. When the files or content of the files are used, altered, modified, merged or copied with the intention to publish or distribute, this full copyright notice should be included.
